[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The big drawback and the
reason for all the attacks we
get on the Gerson therapy is
that the pharmaceutical medical
trust is huge, huge.
Most important
industry, it's one
of the most powerful industries
in the country, in America.
They make a lot of
money on cancer,
according to Ralph Moss, PhD,
who was an insider for awhile
at Sloan Kettering, one
of the biggest cancer
hospitals in the US.
He studied this.
After he left Sloan
Kettering, he studied it.
And he wrote a book,
which came out in 1996.
That he called-- in other
words, 11 years ago--
that he called The
Cancer Industry,
The Politics of Cancer subtitle.
And the problem with
cancer and the amount
that is earned with
cancer is a huge industry.
And he found that,
at that time, cancer
amounted to approximately
an annual income
of hundred billion US
dollars in the US alone.
It has gone up in the meantime.
And they keep coming out with
more and more expensive drugs.
And they have-- OK,
there's another thing, too.
In 1972, our then
President Nixon
stated that, if we throw enough
money at this cancer problem,
we'll solve it.
We were able to put
a man on the moon.
And we ought to be able
to solve the problem.
And in 1972, he agreed to make
a great deal of money available.
That year, 220,000
Americans died of cancer.
Exactly 25 years later, USA
Today, the big newspaper,
I think it was also in
Newsweek, published the figures
what actually did happen.
What happened was
the US government,
us taxpayers, put out over 39
billion US dollars for research
on cancer.
The result was, 25 years
later in 1996, 560,000 people
died of cancer more than double.
And more were getting
sick with cancer.
And of course, more
money was spent.
And more chemotherapy
drugs came on the market.
And chances are that nowadays
from $100 billion in 1996,
the cancer industry is worth
more than $140 to $150 billion
a year in the US.
The problem with the Gerson
therapy is it heals with food.
It heals with organic
vegetarian food.
It heals with juices.
A sack of carrots,
25 pounds, probably
only last a patient for a week.
It maybe cost $12.
And the medical
pharmaceutical industry
can't make money on that.
If the patients recover, they
don't need any more painkillers
and don't touch any more chemo
drugs that are poisonous.
By the way, did you know
that the information that
comes along with the chemo
drugs, usually the paper that
goes along with it, clearly
states that the chemo
drug is known to cause cancer.
It's a wonderful cancer
drug that can cause cancer.
Well, it's very important
to get raw food.
We give the patient somewhere
between 10 and 13 eight ounce
glasses of fresh raw juice
from organic produce.
They get tremendous amounts
of raw enzymes, raw nutrients,
raw minerals, raw vitamins.
OK.
But my father found early on
that, especially the very sick
patients, have poor appetite.
They can't-- they don't really
care to eat all raw food.
When they get all raw
juice, particularly
let's visualize winter.
And it's cold.
And the food is cold.
And the juices are cold.
And they were-- they really--
it doesn't do much for them.
Not only that, but
the intestinal tract
is damaged with all the
bad food and all the damage
they have done over the years
to the intestinal tract.
And if they suddenly
get only raw food,
it causes poor digestion.
It causes gas.
It causes diarrhea.
It causes cramping and spasming.
It doesn't work.
So what we actually do is a
very interesting question,
because we get similar
questions from the patients.
Breakfast is made up of oatmeal.
It's a nice soft,
bulky cereal, which
not only is high in
vegetarian protein
but it's high in the
B-complex vitamin.
And it gives the
stomach a cushion
of soft, cooked substance
for the juices that follow.
OK.
Then lunch, well
lunch, and it always
starts with a nice
big raw salad.
But then there's a
special hippocrates soup,
which the special combination
of herbs, hippocrates,
already found helps to
cleanse the kidneys.
While we work a lot
on the liver, well,
what about the kidneys?
Of course, the juices
do a lot of that.
But the herbs help the
kidneys to release all this.
So we get a nice
big plate of soup.
First salad, then
soup, then they
get a vegetable plate and
potatoes, and it feels good.
And they'll eat it.
And they're hungry.
And it gives soft bulk.
OK.
So then dessert is
either a piece of fruit,
or it could be stewed
fruit or whatever.
But what's interesting is the
patients even occasionally
remark, well, how can we get
well and this is all cooked
food?
Actually the cooked food,
the oatmeal, the vegetables
and potatoes, comprise
less than 3 pounds
of the patient's intake.
The raw food, in the form of
salads, fruit, and juices,
comprise like 17 pounds.
OK.
But the patients think they're
getting all cooked foods.
But the point is, with the
soft bulk of the cooked food,
which also have
minerals and still
have nutrients and
still have proteins,
they are able to digest.
And the intestinal
tract functions better.
And they don't get gas.
And they're able to function.
But on raw foods, they
don't function well.
They get gas.
They get difficulty digesting.
They don't have appetite.
And it's all raw.
And it's all cold.
And, you know, psychologically,
it's important.
But physically,
it's also important.
And they do, I mean, the
cooked food is not just dead.
OK.
Of course, there are
no enzymes in it.
But get-- they get 17
pounds worth of enzymes
that they forget
they're drinking.
It's not eating.
It's interesting.
Yes.
Well, of course,
that's part of my job
is to help the patients
understand what they're doing
and make it practical.
And of course, being
at the hospital,
they get the food prepared.
And they learn what it's like.
And we do something
else at the hospital.
We urge the patients
to bring a companion.
We literally sometimes refuse to
admit them without a companion.
And the companion
is free of charge.
We don't charge
for the companion,
because a companion is
such an important person.
The companion has to learn
the food preparation,
what the meals consist of,
how the patients respond,
how, you know, the
medication is given,
how the enemas are given.
And what happens when patients
go into this typical flare up,
these healing
reactions, all of this,
the companion has to
learn, understand.
Because they are going to
be the caregivers at home.
Again, the patients generally
stay only three weeks.
But the therapy lasts two years.
They have to carry on at home.
And they shouldn't
make mistakes.
It's very, very difficult.
Because there's so many
do's and don'ts in the book.
And people have to learn
how and why and what to do.
That's why these companions
are so important, so much so
that they're not even charged.
We urge them to come.
We literally make them come.
But we can't do that
and charge them, OK.
So we don't.
>> That's great.
>> By the way, I do not
own or operate the clinic.
It's owned and operated by
two Mexican physicians that
have worked with us, one from
the start of the treatment 30
years ago.
This July, it'll
be exactly 30 years
since we opened the first
Gerson clinic in Mexico.
And the other doctor came on
board just a little bit later.
I think for her
it's like 24 years.
And they do a wonderful job.
In a nutshell you know
where it came from,
it came from World
War I. At the time,
Germany was surrounded
by the Allies.
And a lot of the important
tropical materials
didn't reach Germany.
That included
coffee and morphine.
And you know, then there
were the field hospitals,
where constant train loads
of injured and shot patients,
you know, soldiers came in.
And they had to have surgery.
And they had to
be taken care of.
And it was very difficult.
Because there was virtually no
morphine, just maybe
barely enough to go.
But not after the pain was
started, after the surgery,
they wouldn't get it.
And interestingly, not
rarely, the surgeons
would order enemas
for such patients.
But it was usually
water or soap enemas.
And on the other
hand, there was always
enough coffee for the surgeons.
Because they often had to
work around the clock, 24,
36 hours without sleep.
So there was always
enough coffee for them.
But nobody out to
keep them awake.
So occasionally, there
was some coffee leftover.
And the nurses who had
to prepare these enemas
for the operated patients,
they said the coffee
is doing the surgeons good.
Maybe it'll do
the patients good.
And they poured coffee
into their enema buckets.
And the patients reported
that it relieved their pain.
And that was interesting.
And this report came to the
ears of two doctors, scientists
at the University of Gottingen
in Germany, after the war.
And they tested it on animals.
And they put caffeine into
the rectum of animals.
And they found that, yes,
it travels to the liver,
to the bile ducts,
and opens these ducts.
And they could see the flow
of bile with the caffeine
into the rectum.
Then a different doctor
hearing about this research
and apparently he
claimed that he
heard my father lecture one time
in Berlin many, many years ago.
And he was interested.
And he was a researcher.
So he swallowed, not
swallowed, actually put it
through his nose, a tube
that goes down the esophagus.
And he released it
to go up to the place
where the bile flows
into the small intestine.
He had that tube
all the way down.
And he could see that when
he was drinking the coffee,
that these same bile ducts
would close, cramp, spasm
and soap over.
Then on himself, he put
caffeine into the rectum.
And he could see
that they opened up.
And the bile would flow.
In other words, there was
proof that rectum coffee
works quite opposite and
differently than coffee
you drink.
And of course, we
still got doctors
who love to make fun
of the Gerson therapy,
ha ha, coffee, rectum.
Do you use cream and sugar?
You know, this sort of nonsense.
They don't understand.
They want to make it ridiculous.
On the other hand, I don't
know if you know about this,
but there is such a
thing as the Merck
Manual for Medical Procedures.
And coffee enemas were described
in the Merck Manual until 1973,
then it disappeared.
Disappeared.
But it was in the Merck Manual.
And we find now that, you
know, we give the patients,
in many cases, especially in
severe cancer and severe pain,
as many as five enemas a day.
In other words, enemas are not
designed to move the bowel.
They do that anyway,
and that's important.
But that's not
their main function.
The main function is to
keep these bile ducts open,
so that with all the release
that we force with the juices
and enzymes, the
release of toxins
that we force into
the bloodstream that
are filtered out through
the liver to help the liver
get rid of it.
Or else, if it
doesn't get rid of it,
it does more damage
to the liver.
And that's the importance
of coffee enemas.
And you should not--
nobody should do the Gerson
therapy without enemas.
And you know, when you
have patients that say,
well, you know, I don't mind
juices and the vegetarian food.
That's OK.
But enemas?
That's very often a
problem for patients.
Or it also goes the
other way around.
They say, I don't
mind taking an enema.
But I want to eat
the food I enjoy.
I want to eat my meat or steak
or whatever they want to eat.
I don't want to do that.
Well, you can't do
a half a therapy.
The Gerson therapy
is a total approach
to all the body's systems.
And it works with all of the
systems, the enzyme system,
the hormone system, the mineral
balances, the immune system.
It works with the
essential organ system.
It works with everything.
And you can't do
a half a therapy.
And it's very, very important
to keep that in mind.
And that's where the food,
the juices, the enemas,
and the enzymes that we add in
addition, because the patients
don't have anything
to work with,
what little they had is dead
and gone with the chemotherapy.
The doctors add to the problem.